it is very rare that we talk about a
controller because they're kind of all
the same and this is the first one in
the long time that has a feature that I
have not seen before oh it is the Turtle
Beach stealth pivot and let me show you
what that
means pivot it's a different
controller yes this controller's gimmick
is that there is two sets of buttons and
analog sticks that you can rotate
between depending on the genre of game
you're playing uh and what I've
generally found is that gimmicks suck
when you do a weird unique thing it's
rare that that is done well at least the
first time and so I've been excited to
look at this and dreading it a little
bit because Turtle Beach doesn't
necessarily have the best reputation
they're kind of the cheap uh headset
maker for Xboxes and ps5s however first
impression this is a nice controller
holy crap it is chunky the shape of the
body is very thick because it has to be
able to fit you know the pivoting
modules the Plastics feel premium
although I'm not necessarily a huge fan
of the kind of extreme gamer uh accents
I think it's makes sense when you're
selling a premium controller but I
prefer just simple quality Plastics uh
that are uniform so that the hand kind
of just feels normal everywhere in its
default configuration it's very much
like an Xbox controller to analog sticks
that are hall effect uh which is very
nice if you don't know what that is
instead of using potentiometers that rub
against each other and wear down and
cause uh stick drift longterm hall
effect use magnets to detect its
position and a spring to reenter the
stick and so theoretically it shouldn't
drift long term although the Springs can
have their own set of issues but
generally speaking you want hall effect
you have your
d-pad which is fine it's adequate for
the kind of game you would play with a
joystick next to it face buttons that
are very traditional membrane feeling on
the front we have where our screen will
be if you've ever looked down at your
controller and wish we got a screen this
is the controller for you you the three
people that have thought that we have
our start select I don't care what they
call them now they're still starting
select to me down here we have our input
Focus button I'm not sure what that does
but we will Discover it when we play
with the software in the middle here we
have our quick slide dial that you can
assign to different functions like uh
changing your volume to chat mix or just
changing your volume and whatnot uh here
that looks like a share button so pretty
standard configuration other than the
screen and the quick slide button on the
front on the top we have shoulder button
triggers but we also have these trigger
stops which is actually a pretty killer
feature if you're someone who plays
competitive games basically what that
does when it's not activated you have a
full trigger travel all the way down and
when you activate it it's a much shorter
travel so in a game where you're
constantly pulling the trigger and you
want to have the fastest Reaction Time
possible you won't have to travel quite
as far I like actually having my aim
down button be the full travel and then
the trigger button just being a little
clicky click on the back we have
programmable buttons one on each side as
well as our locks for the pivot modules
you'll notice when you want to Pivot it
yet you have to twist these down I don't
love the way that you have to rotate the
sticks every time you want to Pivot it
it feels like that's going to be a point
of failure long term for the controller
I might be wrong um but where everything
else is rated in millions of clicks and
presses I expect that to be a much lower
number for the amount of times you can
twist that stick before it starts to do
some wonky things and in terms of
General button feel it feels pretty nice
the sticks have a decent amount of
resistance to them they're not the kind
of really cheap light controller uh
although I've definitely felt heavier
sticks d-pad feels okay face buttons
feel pretty nice all the little buttons
feel fine the bumpers feel like a very
small amount of rubber kind of going in
it feels small and precise and clicky in
a way that's good but it doesn't feel as
satisfying as I felt on other
controllers definitely not bad that kind
of differenti will definitely be a
preference thing the triggers are quite
nice at full travel it doesn't feel like
they go very far but with the Hair Stop
triggers it actually doesn't feel that
different they definitely feel quality
and the shape of them is quite nice I
like the texture on it too um overall
yeah quite a premium controller
definitely for chunky hands um oh I
missed something look a headphone jack
big fan of headphone jacks on
controllers when I play on a PC I'm
often playing with the wired headphones
uh and have having the ability to be
further away from my desk but still use
my wired headphones big plus but that's
all the buttons on the regular
configuration side let's see how it
feels on this
side buttons feel exactly the
same they feel like the resistance is a
little bit different like the a button
feels like it's harder to press than
whatever this customizable button is
this d-pad way better on this side it
makes sense on this side that it's kind
of a more premium d-pad as it's a
primary input method it's one of those
old Sega feeling ones where it's a big
disc instead of the the plus sign it
feels very precise very clicky you can
even probably hear
it the flipping feels pretty good you
can definitely over rotate it which is a
little bit worrisome uh for the
reliability I think it's something
you're going to want to be careful on
but there's kind of a satisfying click
when it lands in its correct spot trying
to see if there's any give even when
it's locked I don't know if you can see
it but the whole module is moving a
little bit when I press the
d-pad not ideal and it doesn't feel like
the whole thing's a big mushy mess it's
definitely the kind of compromise you
have to make for a gimmick of this sort
overall quite premium feeling buttons uh
and I'm quite satisfied and I would be
pretty happy to play on this in your box
you'll also have a USB cable on the box
it says 3 m on the website it says 2.5 M
we seem to have lost ours in the uh
bustle of the LTT video that this is
going to be in uh so you you keep be on
the lookout for that you also get your
dongle which is my preferred way to play
pretty simple this one has a pairing
button which is interesting uh not much
left to do but plug this thing and test
it out for ourselves but first let me
tell you about our sponsor thanks to War
Thunder for sponsoring this video take
to the skies strike from the sea and
dominate on land with thousands of
vehicles each modeled accurately from
their real life counterparts you'll be
immersed in the action thanks to
authentic sound effects in-depth
customization options and realistic
damage modeling and the best part on top
of their PC and console versions they
have an allnew mobile app for IOS and
Android so you can take to the
battlefield wherever you might be join
over 70 million players and revel in the
destruction use our Link in the
description to get a welcome bonus pack
that includes multiple premium Vehicles
one thing I didn't point out is that it
is USB type-c which is nice very
standard these days uh but people seem
to still find ways to mess things up so
you can also see that you can charge and
play it at the same time something you
think is common but it is not
Universal the sticks seem to be pretty
good let's test the
circularity
oops about 133% Circle error on the
sticks that's not horrible out of the
box that's not ideal but you can
calibrate it using this Nifty screen so
let's dive into the features of this
screen first screen you get kind of an
overview of your settings uh you can
create your profiles we can configure
our four buttons either our back buttons
or the blue buttons that were in the top
right corner Corner um I'm more
interested in these back paddles
realistically what I want to do is have
this be the left and right clicks I find
that's a good thing for it it's a little
bit confusing because this isn't
mirrored uh just think about it for a
second you'll get there I believe in you
okay we can change our slider uh right
now it's volume but we could change our
mic monitor up down our mic mute game
chat and our EQ I'm going to leave it at
volume one thing that I would improve in
the next version of the software is when
I press
stuff it would show me what I'm pressing
on screen just so that I can be fully
aware of the stuff that's happening
that's nice you can reassign one of the
analog sticks to the d-pad um so if
you're playing a retro Style game that
doesn't have d-pad support for some
reason you could actually Force the game
to use your d-pad uh for that that's
actually quite nice
sticks left stick Dead Zone get out of
here I'm buy hall effect sticks to have
freaking Dead Zone what the heck is this
oh yeah so you can
see the shape of the circle I'm all the
way to the edge of the circle of the
analog stick and it doesn't follow the
circle perfectly it goes beyond the
bounds of the circle so it shows you
that's where the circularity is that's
the kind of error that you're not really
going to notice especially cuz it's
pretty uh symmetrical across the whole
controller Spectrum we have trigger dead
zones now that's nice
uh again that's not really what I'm
doing here if I was playing like a
racing Sim maybe I'd want to like only
have the pedal activate once I'm a
little bit in it's definitely a
preference thing there's actually is
some games that don't have dead zones
built into their interpretation of X
input and sometimes it feels weird and
so having the option to add Dead Zone
not a bad thing what the is super human
hearing we have different eqs signature
sound which I'm guessing is probably
just like a little bit of a base boost
there's a big b base boost there's a
base and treble boost so probably just a
vshape where you lose the mids and a
voice boost which is probably the
opposite uh the mids being boosted a
little bit it is nice to know that they
put a little bit of effort into the
audio coming out of a controller I've
put headphones into controllers that
have the worst Dack I've ever heard in
the entire world and I imagine this one
won't be the worst and then we have RGB
this is the smallest amount of RGB I
didn't even notice this RGB which is
probably a good thing if you don't like
the sensation of the vibration you can
control it pretty granularly okay we can
calibrate our controller that's quite
nice is it actually calibrating or is it
just testing
it it doesn't seem to be doing anything
okay yeah that's uh adequate software it
doesn't do anything
unexpected but uh it does what I need it
to do other than control this light
which is weird there's another feature
that we're trying to get working but
seems to be uh having a little bit of
issue with the software and that is a
pro a mode where you toggle it and it
changes the sensitivity so you can snipe
better um I don't think that that's
really an important feature for people I
feel like that's one of those check the
box as a feature sort of things but if
you're someone that does like switching
sensitivities for your six mid game let
me know I do that for my uh my mice
sometimes so maybe you're doing it for
your controllers let's play a game the
vibration is bad I don't like the
vibration of this control at all it
feels and sounds
weird just like a
wimpy that's a very precise stick I can
feel it's very responsive now that I've
turned off The Dead Zone on the uh in
the game these feel very good I'm going
to be very bad cuz I don't play many
shooters with a
controller but the issues are not with
the controller they're with me I can
tell you right now this feels like a
very good controller I'm going to set
the hair trigger you lose a little bit
of immersion especially on something
like the bo check which is is a bow and
you know has like a big
pull I don't think there is vibration in
the triggers there's not it's certainly
not resistive or adaptive like the PS5
ones where they push back against you
depending on the game even though this
game does support that and there's no
vibration which is a feature not
everyone cares about I've kind of come
to love it this is a pretty solid
controller it is kind of gimmicky but
it's it feels very premium and I've kind
of forgotten that there even is another
side these triggered feel good the
sticks feel good uh let's go into a game
where we're going to test out the d-pad
and the face buttons a little bit more
oh yeah I forgot that there's a screen
on this thing you hit the quick start
button and then uh you can go through
your social alerts I'm guessing you
connect that to Discord and it'll pop up
there that
uh not a cool feature like it's one of
those things where they're like we need
to add more to this controller to
justify its price uh I don't think I
care about my controller having the
latest messages for me that's what my
second monitor is for and if you're
buying this and don't have a second
monitor that's a weird way to spend your
money to be honest it's not a cheap
controller we'll get to that d-pad
mapping slider mapping so you can do the
stuff that you're doing in the software
uh in game if you lose connection you
can reconnect using that all right time
to test the other
side yo this d-pad is fire though I
haven't played on a controller where I
thought the d-pad was
better than adequate in a long time I
really like this side's d-pad the other
side as mid as everything else really
precise really clear what I'm pressing
it doesn't feel like there's going to be
accidental presses we're here in Street
Fighter 6 yeah it's really easy with
this d-pad to know exactly what I'm
pressing it's very clicky very tactile
although this is clearly not the Esports
way to play a fighting game this is a
pretty dang good way especially because
in just a couple
seconds you're back to the traditional
way it feels a little bit cheap to me
that they have a really good controller
on one side and kind of a mid one on
this side I can't imagine it's that
expensive to manufacture that d-pad um
but I guess every penny
counts Turtle Beach if you're playing
wirelessly they claim you get about 20
hours of battery which is great uh
someone who plays on a PS5 I'm used to
like uh three on a good day uh and so 20
is a pretty acceptable amount just
charge it every couple play sessions uh
we haven't talked about the different
connectivity modes there's obviously
Wireless either over dongle or Bluetooth
you can do wired and you need to do
wired if you're doing it on an Xbox um
which is a bit of a shame you can use it
with Android so you can actually use it
with a TV which is uh interesting as
more and more uh game streaming services
are offering TV apps like I noticed at
the game awards yesterday Microsoft is
pivoting what Xbox branding means like
their their whole new thing is that you
know your phone is an Xbox your TV is an
Xbox because it can stream Game Pass and
so this will work with that and this
would be a great controller for that I
think overall this is quite a nice
controller especially for something
that's so gimmicky I'm quite impressed
with how it feels and how it plays uh
and I have no real complaints except the
price this controller costs
$130 that's not the most you can spend
on a controller but it's far from the
the least and in an era where there is
really good $30
controllers it can be a little bit hard
to justify spending $130 on a controller
that is very good uh but I don't think
is better than two separate controllers
that does what this does when you
compare it to the elites of the world
this is actually a $50 savings and I
think this is way better than a Xbox
Elite controller uh and the fact that
it's hall effect sticks means that they
should last you longer um but there's a
bunch of controller Brands out there
that you may not have heard of that make
really freaking good controllers and
we're doing some kind of Roundup on LTT
that you'll want to uh keep your eye out
for and it might not have all the
features but it's if you're looking for
just like a no-nonsense controller
there's other options but if you're
someone who wants one controller that
can do it all this is really good and it
is not really compromising in any
meaningful way and I feel like I can
recommend this controller
um without any real hesitation you look
at the price if that's in your range
this is a pretty sweet candidate just
like uh you're a pretty sweet candidate
for watching this video thanks for
watching short circuit if you like this
video why don't you check out another
one where I do something